# Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body by Daniel Goleman and Richard J. Davidson

- Maharaji seemed always to be absorbed in some state of ongoing quiet rapture, and, paradoxically, at the same time was attentive to whoever was with him. (274)
- Such transformative moments mark the boundary of mindfulness, where we observe the ordinary ebb and flow of the mind, with a further reach where we gain insight into the mind’s nature. With mindfulness you would just note the stream of sensations. (306)
- The next step, insight, brings the added realization of how we claim those sensations as “mine.” Insight into pain, for example, reveals how we attach a sense of “I” so it becomes “my pain” rather than being just a cacophony of sensations that change continuously from moment to moment. (308)
- Clinical psychology, Dan’s field, was fixated on looking for a specific problem like high anxiety and trying to fix that one thing. Asian psychologies had a wider lens on our lives and offered ways to enhance our positive side. (320)
- “Access” implies being on the brink of total concentration, the full absorption called jhana (akin to samadhi in Sanskrit), where any and all distracting thoughts totally cease. In jhana the mind fills with strong rapture, bliss, and an unbroken one-pointed focus on the meditation target. (482)
- Here, awareness stays open to whatever arises in the mind rather than to one thing only—to the exclusion of all else—as in total concentration. The ability to maintain this mindfulness, an alert but nonreactive stance in attention, varies with our powers of one-pointedness. (492)
- Once we glimpse our mind as a set of processes, rather than getting swept away by the seductions of our thoughts, we enter the path of insight. There we progress through shifting again and again our relationship to that inner show—each time yielding yet more insights into the nature of consciousness itself. (505)
- The trouble with drug-induced states is that after the chemical clears your body, you remain the same person as always. And, as Richie discovered, the same fading away happens with highs in meditation. (529)
- The after is the before for the next during. (591)
- Neuroplasticity provides an evidence-based framework and a language that makes sense in terms of current scientific thinking.16 It was the scientific platform we had long needed, a way of thinking about how intentional training of the mind, like meditation, might shape the brain. (681)
- Carol Ryff, drawing on Aristotle among many other thinkers, posits a model of well-being with six arms: (731)
- Self-acceptance, (732)
- Personal growth, (734)
- Autonomy, (737)
- Mastery, (739)
- Satisfying relationships, (740)
- Life purpose, (742)
- Only mindfulness of their breath both lowered activity in the amygdala—mainly via a faster recovery—and strengthened it in the brain’s attentional networks, while the patients reported less stress reactivity. The same beneficial pattern emerged when the patients who had done MBSR were compared with some who had trained in aerobics. (1116)
- Mindful Attention Training. This program starts with full focus on the breath, then progressively refines attention to observe the natural flow of the mind stream and finally rest in the subtle awareness of awareness itself.8 (1126)
- The amygdala connects strongly to brain circuitry for both focusing our attention and for intense emotional reactions. This dual role explains why, when we are in the grip of anxiety, we are also very distracted, especially by whatever is making us anxious. (1140)
- lessened amygdala reactivity was found only during mindful attention and not during ordinary awareness, indicating a state effect, not an altered trait. A trait change, remember, is the “before,” not the “after.” (1151)
- Among pain’s main components are our purely physiological sensations, like burning, and our psychological reactions to those sensations.11 Meditation, the theory goes, might mute our emotional response to pain and so make the heat sensations more bearable. (1169)
- Zen meditators seemed to respond to pain as though it was a more neutral sensation. In more technical language, their brains showed a “functional decoupling” of the higher and lower brain regions that register pain—while their sensory circuitry felt the pain, their thoughts and emotions did not react to it. (1184)
- Researchers are, appropriately, skeptical about such traitlike findings because self-selection in who chooses to stick with meditation and who drops out along the way might also account for such data; perhaps people who choose to meditate for years and years are already different in ways that look like trait effects. The maxim “Correlation does not mean causation” applies here. (1194)
- Like people who suffer from post-traumatic stress syndrome, victims of burnout are no longer able to put a halt to their brain’s stress response—and so, never have the healing balm of recovery time. (1207)
- Result: the meditators had a smaller rise in cortisol during the stress. Just as important, the meditators perceived that dreaded Trier test as less stressful than did the nonmeditators. (1259)
- The reason: their brains had stronger operative connectivity between the prefrontal cortex, which manages reactivity, and the amygdala, which triggers such reactions. As neuroscientists know, the stronger this particular link in the brain, the less a person will be hijacked by emotional downs and ups of all sorts. (1266)
- While MBSR training did reduce the reactivity of the amygdala, the long-term meditator group showed both this reduced reactivity in the amygdala plus strengthening of the connection between the prefrontal cortex and amygdala. (1274)
- when Richie’s group divided the seasoned meditators into those with the least hours of practice (lifetime average 1,849 hours) and the most (lifetime average 7,118), the results showed that the more hours of practice, the more quickly the amygdala recovered from distress.22 (1284)
- This rapid recovery is the hallmark of resilience. In short, equanimity emerges more strongly with extended practice. (1287)
- The amygdala, a key node in the brain’s stress circuitry, shows dampened activity from a mere thirty or so hours of MBSR practice. (1289)
- More daily practice seems associated with lessened stress reactivity. (1294)
- Finally, the quickness with which long-term meditators recover from stress underlines how trait effects emerge with continued practice. (1298)
- In the format for loving-kindness that Sharon helped bring to the West, you silently repeat phrases like “May I be safe,” “May I be healthy,” and “May my life unfold with ease,” first wishing this for yourself, then for people you love, then for neutral people, and finally for all beings—even those whom you find difficult or who have harmed you. In one version or another, this has become the most well-studied format of compassion meditation. (1338)
- Such positive regard for a victim of suffering means we can confront and deal with their difficulty. This allows us to move along that spectrum from noticing what’s going on to the payoff, actually helping them. (1378)
- Studies with novices learning loving-kindness reveal an early harbinger of heightened amygdala reactions to images of pain and suffering found in seasoned meditators.10 The finding was nowhere as strong as in the long-term meditators—just a hint that the pattern can show up very soon. (1400)
- These various mind training methods drive the brain in different ways. During compassion practice, the amygdala is turned up in volume, while in focused attention on something like the breath, the amygdala is turned down. Meditators are learning how to change their relationship to their emotions with different practices. (1427)
- The amygdala’s circuits light up when we are exposed to someone feeling a strong negative emotion—fear, anger, and the like. This amygdala signal alerts the brain that something important is happening; the amygdala acts as neural radar detecting the salience of whatever we experience. If what’s going on seems urgent, like a woman screaming in fear, the amygdala has extensive connections to recruit other circuitry to respond. (1429)
- Meanwhile the insula uses its connections to the body’s visceral organs (like the heart) to ready the body for active engagement (increasing blood flow to the muscles, for example). Once the brain primes the body to respond, those who have meditated on compassion are more likely to act to help someone. (1432)
- Unlike other benefits of meditation that emerge gradually—like a quicker recovery from stress—enhancing compassion comes more readily. We suspect that cultivating compassion may take advantage of “biological preparedness,” a programmed readiness to learn a given skill, as seen, for instance, in the rapidity with which toddlers learn language. Just as with speaking, the brain seems primed to learn to love. (1441)
- The cultivation of a loving concern for other people’s well-being has a surprising and unique benefit: the brain’s circuitry for happiness energizes, along with compassion.19 Loving-kindness also boosts the connections between the brain’s circuits for joy and happiness and the prefrontal cortex, a zone critical for guiding behavior.20 And the greater the increase in the connection between these regions, the more altruistic a person becomes following compassion meditation training. (1455)
- Compassion, she found, muted the empathic distress that can lead to emotional exhaustion and burnout (as happens sometimes in the caring professions like nursing). Instead of simply feeling with the other person’s angst, compassion training led to that activation of completely different brain circuits, those for loving concern—and to positive feelings and resilience. (1476)
- First signs suggest that each variety of meditation has its own neural profile. (1518)
- The drop in unconscious prejudice came from loving-kindness. (1557)
- William James made explicit what that Zen master may have been hinting at: “The faculty of bringing back a wandering attention over and over again is the very root of judgment, character and will,” he declared in his Principles of Psychology, published in 1890. James went on to say that “an education which should improve this faculty would be the education par excellence.” (1590)
- By zooming in on details of sights, sounds, tastes, and sensations that we otherwise would habituate to, our mindfulness transformed the familiar and habitual into the fresh and intriguing. This attention training, we saw, might well enrich our lives, giving us the choice to reverse habituation by focusing us on a deeply textured here and now, making “the old new again.” (1619)
- Conclusion: mindfulness (at least in this form) strengthens the brain’s ability to focus on one thing and ignore distractions. The neural circuitry for selective attention, the study concluded, can be trained—contrary to the standard wisdom where attention was assumed to be hardwired and so, beyond the reach of any training attempt. (1691)
- A universal goal in meditation of every kind comes down to sustaining attention in a chosen way or to a given target, such as the breath. Numerous reports, both anecdotal and scientific, support the idea that meditation leads to better sustained attention, or, to use the technical term, vigilance. (1707)
- Yes: meditators who regularly practiced some form of “open monitoring” (a spacious awareness of whatever comes to mind) reversed the usual escalation of attentional blinks with aging, even doing better than another group taken entirely from a younger population. (1747)
- Cognitive control, on the other hand, lets us focus on a specific goal or task and keep it in mind while resisting distractions, the very abilities multitasking harms. (1781)
- If multitasking results in flabby attention, a concentration workout like counting breaths offers a way to tone up, at least in the short term. But there was no indication that the upward bump in attention would last—the (1788)
- A surprise: mindfulness also improved working memory—the holding in mind of information so it can transfer into long-term memory. Attention is crucial for working memory; if we aren’t paying attention, those digits won’t register in the first place. (1799)
- Another way cognitive control helps us is in managing our impulses, technically known as “response inhibition.” As we saw in chapter five, “A Mind Undisturbed,” in Cliff Saron’s study the training upped a meditator’s ability to inhibit impulse over the course of three months and, impressively, stayed strong in a five-month follow-up.17 And better impulse inhibition went along with a self-reported uptick in emotional well-being. (1803)
- In meta-awareness it does not matter what we focus our attention on, but rather that we recognize awareness itself. Usually what we perceive is a figure, with awareness in the background. Meta-awareness switches figure and ground in our perception, so awareness itself becomes foremost. (1810)
- Consider unconscious bias, the prejudices we hold but do not believe we have at all (as mentioned in chapter six, “Primed for Love”). Meditation can both enhance the function of the DLPFC and lessen unconscious bias.20 (1832)
- Cognitive psychologists test meta-awareness by giving people mental tasks so challenging that errors are inevitable, and then tracking the number of such errors—and whether the person notices there might have been an error (that’s the meta-awareness angle). (1835)
- Our hunch would be that pushing a neural system like attention in a lasting way requires not just these short trainings and continued daily practice, but also intensive booster sessions, (1861)
- Meditation, at its root, retrains attention, and different types boost varying aspects of attention. MBSR strengthens selective attention, while long-term vipassana practice enhances this even more. (1868)
- While meditation boosts many aspects of attention, these are short-term gains; more lasting benefits no doubt require ongoing practice. (1876)
- In short, our mind wanders mostly to something about ourselves—my thoughts, my emotions, my relationships, who liked my new post on my Facebook page—all the minutiae of our life story. By framing every event in how it impacts ourselves, the default mode makes each of us the center of the universe as we know it. Those reveries knit together our sense of “self” from the fragmentary memories, hopes, dreams, plans, and so on that center on I, me, and mine. Our default mode continually rescripts a movie where each of us stars, replaying particularly favorite or upsetting scenes over and over. (1929)
- Managing attention, as we saw in the previous chapter, is an essential ingredient of every variety of meditation. When we become lost in thoughts during meditation, we’ve fallen into the default mode and its wandering mind. (1944)
- Meditative traditions of all kinds share one goal: letting go of the constant grasping—the “stickiness” of our thoughts, emotions, and impulses—that guides us through our days and lives. Technically called “dereification,” this key insight has the meditator realize that thoughts, feelings, and impulses are passing, insubstantial mental events. With this insight we don’t have to believe our thoughts; instead of following them down some track, we can let them go. (1968)
- Intriguingly, the long-term meditators seemed to have roughly the same lessened connectivity in the default mode circuitry while they just rested before the test as they displayed during mindfulness. (2014)
- Along these lines, Richie’s group found that meditators who had an average 7,500 lifetime hours, compared to people their own age, had decreased gray matter volume in a key region: the nucleus accumbens.13 This was the only brain region showing a difference in brain structure compared to age-matched controls. A smaller nucleus accumbens diminishes connectivity between these self-related regions and the other neural modules that ordinarily orchestrate to create our sense of self. (2030)
- Ancient meditation manuals say letting go of these thoughts is, at first, like a snake uncoiling itself; it takes some effort. Later, though, whatever thoughts come to mind are like a thief entering an empty house: there’s nothing to do, so they just leave. (2049)
- In the scientific study of any skill that people practice, from dentistry to chess, when it comes to sorting out the duffers from the pros, lifetime hours of practice are gold. (2061)
- The rule of thumb: the brain of a novice works hard while that of the expert expends little energy. As we master any activity, the brain conserves its fuel by putting that action on “automatic”; cuing up that activity shifts from top-of-the-brain circuits to the basal ganglia far below the neocortex. (2066)
- Stickiness seems to reflect the dynamics of the emotional circuitry of the brain, including the amygdala and the nucleus accumbens. These regions very likely underlie what traditional texts see as the root causes of suffering—attachment and aversion—where the mind becomes fixated on wanting something that seems rewarding or on getting rid of something unpleasant. (2090)
- One trait that emerges from living without getting stuck seems to be an ongoing positivity, even joy. (2094)
- stress hormone, cortisol, which stayed at high levels. The patients’ relationship to their pain changed for the better with MBSR—but not the underlying biology causing the pain itself. (2142)
- Those who engaged in their MBSR practices for thirty-five minutes or more at home daily, compared to those doing HEP, showed a greater decrease in pro-inflammatory cytokines, (2186)
- these measures were taken—this was a trait effect. Mindfulness practice, it seems, lessens inflammation day to day, not just during meditation itself. (2196)
- Take, for example, a well-designed study of African American men, who are at particularly high risk for hypertension, cardiac and kidney disease. Just fourteen minutes of mindfulness practice in a group who already suffered from kidney disease lowered the metabolic patterns that, if sustained year after year, lead to these diseases.12 (2226)
- On the other hand, when we look at a larger set of studies the news here is mixed. In a meta-analysis of eleven clinical studies where patients with conditions like heart failure and ischemic heart disease were randomly assigned to meditation training or a comparison group, results were, in the words of the researchers, “encouraging” but not conclusive.13 As usual, the meta-analysis called for larger and more rigorous studies. (2232)
- After the day of practice the meditators had a marked “down-regulation” of inflammatory genes—something that had never been seen before in response to a purely mental practice. (2253)
- Telomerase is the enzyme that slows the age-related shortening of telomeres; the more telomerase, the better for health and longevity. A meta-analysis of four randomized controlled studies involving a total of 190 meditators found practicing mindfulness was associated with increased telomerase activity.18 (2268)
- There’s also the gap between showing improvements at the genetic level and proving meditation has biological effects that matter medically. None of these studies makes that further connection. (2285)
- In addition, there’s the issue of what kind of meditation has which physiological impacts. (2286)
- But consider what Richie’s lab found when they looked at long-term meditators (9,000 average lifetime hours of practice).24 Comparing each to a nonmeditator of the same age and sex, the meditators were breathing an average 1.6 breaths more slowly. And this was while they were just sitting still, waiting for a cognitive test to start. (2295)
- As practice continues and breathing becomes progressively slower, the body adjusts its physiological set point for its respiratory rate accordingly. That’s a good thing. While chronic rapid breathing signifies ongoing anxiety, a slower breath rate indicates reduced autonomic activity, better mood, and salutary health. (2300)
- The results: certain areas of the brain seemed to enlarge in meditators, among them: The insula, which attunes us to our internal state and powers emotional self-awareness, by enhancing attention to such internal signals. Somatomotor areas, the main cortical hubs for sensing touch and pain, perhaps another benefit of increased bodily awareness. Parts of the prefrontal cortex that operate in paying attention and in meta-awareness, abilities cultivated in almost all forms of meditation. Regions of the cingulate cortex instrumental in self-regulation, another skill practiced in meditation. The orbitofrontal cortex, also part of the circuitry for self-regulation. (2311)
- And the big news about meditation for older folks comes from a study at UCLA that finds meditation slows the usual shrinkage of our brain as we age: at age fifty, longtime meditators’ brains are “younger” by 7.5 years compared to brains of nonmeditators of the same age.27 Bonus: for every year beyond fifty, the brains of practitioners were younger than their peers’ by one month and twenty-two days. (2318)
- The sounder studies, we found, focus on lessening our psychological distress rather than on curing medical syndromes or looking for underlying biological mechanisms. So, when it comes to a better quality of life for those with chronic diseases, yes to meditation. Such palliative care gets ignored too often in medicine, but it matters enormously to patients. (2417)
- Among experienced meditation practitioners, a daylong period of intensive mindfulness practice down-regulates genes involved in inflammation. The enzyme telomerase, which slows cellular aging, increases after three months of intensive practice of mindfulness and loving-kindness. (2444)
- Working independently, psychologist John Teasdale at the University of Oxford, with Zindel Segal and Mark Williams, was writing Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy for Depression, another such integration.2 His research had revealed that for people with depression so severe that drugs or even electroshock treatments were no help, this mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) cut the rate of relapse by half—more than any medication. (2467)
- In a prominent article in one of the JAMA journals (the official publications of the American Medical Association), the researchers concluded that mindfulness (but not mantra-based meditation like TM, for which there were too few well-designed studies to make any conclusions) could lessen anxiety and depression, as well as pain. The degree of improvement was about as much as for medications, but without troubling side effects—making mindfulness-based therapies a viable alternative treatment for these conditions. (2479)
- But no such benefits were found for other health indicators like eating habits, sleep, substance use, or weight problems. (2483)
- Another reason: among the symptoms of PTSD are emotional numbness, alienation, and a sense of “deadness” in relationships—all of which loving-kindness might help reverse by the cultivation of positive feelings toward others. Still another: many vets dislike the side effects of the drugs they are given for PTSD, so they do not take them at all—and on their own are searching for nontraditional treatments. Loving-kindness appeals on both counts. (2592)
- Dark nights are not unique to vipassana; most every meditative tradition warns about them. In Judaism, for example, Kabbalistic texts caution that contemplative methods are best reserved for middle age, lest an unformed ego fall apart. (2616)
- Although meditation was not originally intended to treat psychological problems, in modern times it has shown promise in the treatment of some, particularly depression and anxiety disorders. (2661)
- trauma, especially those with PTSD. The melding of mindfulness with cognitive therapy, or MBCT, has become the most empirically well-validated psychological treatment with a meditation basis. (2666)
- on average the yogis had twenty-five times greater amplitude gamma oscillations during baseline compared with the control group. (2979)
- Astonishingly, this sustained, brain-entraining gamma pattern goes on even while seasoned meditators are asleep—as (2990)
- Their remarkable meditation skills bespeak what’s technically known as a “state by trait interaction,” suggesting the brain changes that underlie the trait also give rise to special abilities that activate during meditative states—here, a heightened speed of onset, greater intensity, and extended duration. (3008)
- Intriguingly, yogis hearing sounds of people in distress while they were doing loving-kindness meditation showed less activity than others do in their postcingulate cortex (PCC), a key area for self-focused thought.6 In the yogis, hearing sounds of suffering seems to prime a focus on others. (3039)
- This suggests a lessening of the psychological component—like the worry we feel in anticipation of pain—along with intensification of the pain sensations themselves. Right after the heat stopped, all the regions of the pain matrix rapidly returned down to their levels before the pain cue, far more quickly than was the case for the controls. For these highly advanced meditators, the recovery from pain was almost as though nothing much had happened at all. (3076)
- When long-term meditators reported “undistracted awareness,” “effortless doing,” “not efforting,” and “contentment,” activation in the PCC went down. On the other hand, when they reported “distracted awareness,” “efforting,” and “discontentment,” activation of the PCC went up.12 (3095)
- This indicates an extraordinary selectivity of attention: a brain effortlessly able to block out the extraneous sounds and the emotional reactivity they normally elicit. What’s more, this means traits continue to alter even at the highest level of practice. The dose-response relationship does not seem to end even up to 50,000 hours of practice. (3121)
- In short, compassion in the yogis sharpens their sense of other people’s emotions, especially if they are distraught, and heightens sensitivity to their own bodies—particularly the heart, a key source of empathic resonance with the suffering of others. (3149)
- The variety of compassion may matter. Here the practitioners were engaged in “nonreferential” compassion. In the words of Matthieu, they were “generating a state in which love and compassion permeated the whole mind with no other discursive thoughts.” They were not focusing on any specific person, but rather were generating the background quality of compassion; this may be especially important in engaging the neural circuits that tune the brain to the heart. (3151)
- Another point. We expect that the lightening of self and lessening of attachment in the yogis would correlate with a shrinking of the nucleus accumbens, as was found in long-term Western meditators. But Richie has collected no data on this from the yogis, despite the falling away of attachments being an explicit goal of their practice. (3161)
- elephant’s trunk without knowing about the rest of its body. And so, too, with their missing attentional blink, effortless meditative states, ultrarapid recovery from pain, and readiness to help someone in distress—these are but glimpses of a larger reality we do not fully comprehend. (3172)
- The massive levels of gamma activity in the yogis and the synchrony of the gamma oscillations across widespread regions of the brain suggest the vastness and panoramic quality of awareness that they report. The yogis’ awareness in the present moment—without getting stuck in the anticipation of the future or ruminating on the past—seems reflected in the strong “inverted V” response to pain, where yogis show little anticipatory response and very rapid recovery. The yogis also show neural evidence of effortless concentration: it takes only a flicker of the neural circuitry to place their attention on a chosen object, and little to no effort to hold it there. Finally, when generating compassion, the brains of yogis become more connected to their bodies, particularly their hearts—indicating emotional resonance. (3181)
- On the other hand the amygdala, a key node in the brain’s stress circuitry, shows lessened reactivity after thirty or so hours over eight weeks of MBSR practice. (3207)
- Compassion meditation shows stronger benefits from the get-go; as few as seven total hours over the course of two weeks leads to increased connectivity in circuits important for empathy and positive feelings, strong enough to show up outside the meditation state per se. (3209)
- Beginners also find improvements in attention very early on, including less mind-wandering after just eight minutes of mindfulness practice—a short-lived benefit, to be sure. But even as little as two weeks of practice is sufficient to produce less mind-wandering and better focus and working memory, enough for a significant boost in scores on the GRE, the entrance exam for graduate school. Indeed, some findings suggest decreases in activation in the self-relevant regions of the default mode with as little as two months of practice. When it comes to physical health, there is more good news: small improvements in the molecular markers of cellular aging seem to emerge with just thirty hours of practice. (3213)
- Sticking with meditation over the years offers more benefits as meditators reach the long-term range of lifetime hours, around 1,000 to 10,000 hours. (3220)
- For example, in this range we see the emergence of neural and hormonal indicators of lessened stress reactivity. In addition, functional connectivity in the brain in a circuit important for emotion regulation is strengthened, and cortisol, a key hormone secreted by the adrenal gland in response to stress, lessens. (3222)
- Shifts in very basic biological processes, such as a slower breath rate, occur only after several thousand hours of practice. Some of these impacts seem more strongly enhanced by intensive practice on retreat than by daily practice. (3230)
- While in general we see a gradient of shifts with more lifetime meditation hours, we suspect there are different rates of change in disparate neural systems. For instance, the benefits of compassion come sooner than does stress mastery. We expect studies in the future will fill in the details of a dose-response dynamic for various brain circuits. (3234)
- At this world-class level (roughly 12,000 to 62,000 lifetime hours of practice, including many years in deep retreat), truly remarkable effects emerge. (3241)
- Meditation states merge with daily activities, as altered states stabilize into altered traits and become enduring characteristics. (3243)
- meditation seems to transform the resting state—the brain’s default mode—to resemble the meditative state. (3268)
- The ability to be aware of bodily signals like heartbeat did not increase after three months of daily practice of “presence,” which includes a mindful body scan. However, those very improvements began to show up after six months, with even bigger gains after nine months. Some benefits take time to ripen—what psychologists call a “sleeper” effect. (3286)
- The surprise: the greatest increase in prefrontal-amygdala connection correlated with the number of hours a meditator had spent in retreat but not with home hours. (3320)
- A meditator’s hours of retreat practice most strongly correlated with slower breathing, much more than daily practice. (3322)
- One important difference about meditation on retreat is that there are teachers available who can provide guidance—like a coach. And then there is the sheer intensity of the retreat practice, where meditators typically spend up to eight hours (and sometimes much more) a day in formal practice, often for many days in a row. And many or most retreats are at least partially in silence, which may well contribute to building intensity. All of that adds up to a unique opportunity to amp up the learning curve. (3324)
- Mindfulness, for instance, has the meditator witness whatever thoughts and feelings come and go in the mind. Vipassana starts there, then transitions into a meta-awareness of the processes of mind, not the shifting contents. And Dzogchen and Mahamudra include both in early stages—and a host of other meditation types—but end in a “nondual” stance, resting in a more subtle level of “meta-awareness.” This raises a scientific question about the vector of transformation: Can we extrapolate insights from mindfulness and apply them to vipassana (a traditional segue), and from vipassana to the Tibetan practices? (3382)
- Attentional. These meditations focus on training aspects of attention, whether in concentration, as in zeroing in on the breath, a mindful observation of experience, a mantra, or meta-awareness, as in open presence. Constructive. Cultivating virtuous qualities, like loving-kindness, typifies these methods. Deconstructive. As with insight practice, these methods use self-observation to pierce the nature of experience. They include “nondual” approaches that shift into a mode where ordinary cognition no longer dominates. (3394)
- Recognizing this, Richie and his team are developing a digital platform called Healthy Minds that teaches meditation-based strategies to cultivate well-being, even for those who say they “have no time.” (3541)
- But while those many apps use the scientific findings on the benefits of meditation as a selling point, Healthy Minds will go one crucial step further: Richie’s lab will scientifically investigate its impacts to assess how well such piggybacked practice actually works. (3546)
- Kindness Curriculum for preschool children. (3571)
- Consider work by Tracy Shors, a neuroscientist who developed a training program she hypothesized would increase neurogenesis—the growth of new brain cells—called Mental and Physical (MAP) Training.8 Participants did thirty minutes of focused attention meditation followed by thirty minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise two times a week for eight weeks. Benefits included improved executive function, supporting the notion that the brain was shaped positively. (3636)
- Signs of such flourishing include increasing generosity, kindness and focus, and a less rigid division between “us” and “them.” In light of increases in empathy and perspective taking from various kinds of meditation, we think it likely that these practices will produce a greater sense of our interdependence on one another and with the planet. (3737)
- FOR ONGOING REPORTS OF MEDITATION RESEARCH https://centerhealthyminds.org/—Center for Healthy Minds, University of Wisconsin–Madison https://www.mindandlife.org/—Mind & Life Institute https://nccih.nih.gov/—National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health http://ccare.stanford.edu/—Center for Compassion and Altruism Research and Education, Stanford University http://mbct.com/—Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (3765)
