# People Powered: How Communities Can Supercharge Your Business, Brand, and Teams

## Overview

* Community forms from groups of people united by a common interest. They succeed by connecting the mission of the community with the work of the members.
* People become community leaders by repeatedly doing great work, developing enormous amounts of respect, and therefore gaining the trust of the community to make decisions.
* Social capital isn't just generated by contributing, but by how you contribute.
* Community members are not subservient, think of them as potential mentors and leaders.
* Community buildig is a cultural challenge, not a technology one.

* Key Ingredients:
  * How to make it easy for people to contribute and produce value?
  * How to make it easy to contribute repeatedly and build social captial?
  * How to make people feel welcome and intrinsic to community while building a sense of belonging?

* Value & Opportunities
  * Customer and User Engagement - provides ways for a broader set of people to do meaningful work
  * Awareness, Marketing, and Customer/User Success - can be amplifier to transmit brand to broader set of people
  * Education and Support - tap into natural urge to teach and learn
  * Product and Technology Development - map skills to meaningful work delivery
  * Business Capabilities -
    * Improved marketing and brand recognition
    * Technology/Product production and enhancement
    * Recruiting and services

## Strategy

* Create a community mission statement, gather feedback and iterate. Everyone should see their reflection (how they move the needle) in the community mission.

* Perfection is not required, but focus is. Focus both on building meaningful value and driving consumption of it.
* Momentum builds momentum, we are attracted to things that add value to other humans. Great service/experience inspire us to invite others.
* Great experiences produce an appetite for value, set expectations, and get you there easily with gratifying results.

* Balance committed strategy with ability to react and optimize.
* Strategy takes 3-6 months, building growth and participation takes a year, possibly longer.
* Iterate: observe data, look for patterns, develop a hypothesis, devise an experiment, review results, determine next steps, repeat.

* Balance executive needs with practical guidance for folks on the ground, delivering this work.

* Community needs to be integrated into your organization, with the right people hired to deliver it, and building on organizational capabilities.
* Key areas to judge Community Director/Manager/Evalgelist candidates: Domain Expertise, People Person, Willingness to Grow.
* Keys to bringing clarity and reducing risk of strategy falling apart:
  * Community is everyone's priority. If leaders demonstrate good community habits, staff will too.
  * Get departmental alignment. Ensure all departments clearly align in their part of delivering community strategy. Get commitment to delivery and an understanding that not delivering is not an option.
  * Operate on Cadence cycle, blending execution and regular steps back to review strategy.
  * Train and Mentor
  * Execute, Review, Repeat. Don't just judge if your team delivers, but how they deliver and any problems they face.

* Key Components of a Launch:
  * Infrastructure and Content Finalized
  * Early Adopter Program - get feedback, ask questions, and ask them to help promote
  * Teasers Launched
  * Announce Launch Event
  * Launch Day

* Content:
  * Growth requires a multimedia approach. Content builds growth. New communities typically face awareness gaps (what your product/community is) and skill gaps (how to get involved). Content around these can close gaps and bring people in.
  * Growth brings people in, but engagement makes them stick around.
  * Provide a constant drip feed of content, managed in an editorial calendar. Shoot for: weekly 1 blog & 2 social media, quarterly themed campaign & online event
  * Focus on key topics that target audience personas will find valuable.

## Culture & Values

* It is important to be authentic. Build a collaborative environment where your community is empowered to do great work.
* The best ideas come from different brains, so get more brains involved.

* Key Principles:
  * Start simple and build valuable assets.
  * Have clear, intentional, approachable, and objective leadership. Don't be afraid to make unpopular decisions.
  * Regular reminders of culture and expectations. Consider community promise/covenant.
  * Influence is important, not just to validate our work, but also to build a sense of belonging.
  * Focus on relationships, trust, and engagement - invest yourself in other people's success, be interested in their story, and treat them like equals.
  * Strive for and be reactive to insights. Constructive criticism shows members care and is a sign of the success of your community.
  * Be surprising

* Culture Cores
  * Be open. Always default to open where you can. Talk and write openly and freely, provide extra context, and overcommunicate. Openness breeds authenticity.
  * Be pragmatic. Too many communities are all talk and no action.
  * Be personal. Focus on quality, not quantity.
  * Be positive. Highly positive environments generate positive engagement.
  * Be collaborative. Avoid decisions made in a silo. Involve people, gather their feedback, get a gut check, and validate your ideas.
  * Be a role model.
  * Be empathetic. Be intentional about saying and demonstrating it visibly, not just being empathetic in the privacy of your own mind.
  * Be down-to-earth.
  * Be imperfect. Shape the community together with them, complete with the successes and failures therein.

* Community golden rules:
  * Your community members work for the community, not you.
  * If you ask them to help, they often will. Generic calls may falter, while individual outreach often works much better.
  * They thrive on personal validation and gratification.
  * They are not free labor for your company.
  * They are not sales leads.
  * They don't have the same information and context as you do.
  * They may share the same vision, but not the same approach.
  * Their commitment and organizational experience will vary.
  * Internal communities are still volunteers, clearly differentiate between requirements and requests.

## Audience

* You risk a lot of work and failure if you are unclear about what your audience wants and how to get it to them quickly and reliably.
* The foundation for a great community is the combination of a clear way to contribute value and a clear way to receive value.
* Put the success and value of your prospective members first. If you get this right, success will naturally flow.
* People are initially attracted to tangible value, but intangible value keeps them coming back for more.
* It should be clear how the company can drive value to community members, and vice versa.

* Engagement Models:
  * Consumers - people congregate, have discussions, share ideas/opinions, showcase work they have created, and debate aspects of a shared interest. Merit based on reputation formed by showing up and taking part.
  * Champions - people learn, grow, and help others. Generates support, content, relationships, and advocacy.
  * Collaborators - people actively work together on shared projects. Need to provide open access, clear/simple peer-review, be open to changing collaborative workflow, and provide equal opportunity/playing field.

* To understand communities and how to build them, understand people and how they work. Three areas:
  * Understand irrationality of human behavior, why we behave the way we do, and how we can harness key behavioral patterns to our advantage.
  * Design audience personas and shape your community around a realistic understanding of their needs and characteristics.
  * Finally, understand group dynamics in a community to engage with community members as effectively as possible.

* SCARF model of behavioral considerations by Dr. David Rock:
  * Status is important to us.
  * Certainty, and more specifically avoiding uncertainty, is important to well-being.
  * Autonomy is important to us.
  * Relatedness taps the natural urge to form smaller tribes within broader groups. Breaking into smaller teams can tap into this to build team spirit, identity, and belonging.
  * Fairness is important, because we want to be treated fairly and because unfair treatment elicits threat and/or disgust responses.

* Common personas:
  * Users - general consumers
  * Fans - want to meet other fans, have discussions, and debate
  * Support - help others solve problems
  * Content creators - produce content and material
  * Advocates - perform morketing, outreach, and promotion to raise awareness and get people interested and involved
  * Event organizers - produce and deliver events
  * Inner developers - engineering to benefit a shared project of the community
  * Outer developers - build application and services that run on a platform we operate

* Based on community mission/value statements, initially focus on 2-3 critical personas. For each persona, flesh out:
  * What capabilities should this persona have?
  * What experience should this persona have?
  * What motivates this persona?
  * What are the fears of this persona?
  * What rewards would be interesting to this persona?
  * Where do they currently spend their time?

## Journey

* Don't treat community as a loosely affiliated collection of content. Think of it as a carefully curated, chronological journey.
* Make building on your platform as simple as possible, incentive developers to promote and raise awareness of their application and working with your platform.
* If there are hoops to jump through, be sure people want to jump through them to help themselves, you, and the rest of the community succeed.

* Community Participation Framework (take care to apply distinctly to each persona)
  * Onboarding - take new person representing a persona and help them produce something of value - to both them and the community - as quickly and easily as possible.
  * Engagement - help person settle in and support transition from casual to regular and finally core.
  * Incentivization - help people stay engaged, develop their experience, produce new skills, and stay motivated.

* Casual - Make them feel at home and help them be successful.
  * Be responsive and help solve their problems. Always emphasize that you are there to help.
  * Validate and celebrate their efforts.
  * Break the ice and build a relationship.
  * Help them find opportunities to make an impact.
* Regulars - Streamline their experience.
  * Optimize, optimize, optimize. Pay attention to how Regulars engage and find ways to make it easier, more efficient, and more fun.
  * Regularly gather feedback.
  * Promote success.
  * Provide opportunities.
  * Put them in positions of trust and authority. If they are dependable, start to depend on them.
* Core - Help them engage with the broader health and success of the community itself.
  * Have a regular engagement with them.
  * Reward them comprehensively.
  * Include them at a strategic level.
  * Understand and serve their broader goals.
  * Invite blunt feedback.

* For every 100 community members: ~70 casual, ~30 regular, ~1 core.
* Strive to provide self-direction, peer review, and incentivization to drive casual to regular and regular to core. There should be support available even if not everyone transitions all the way through.
* Goal with casuals is to help them acclimatize and settle in.
* Goal with regulars is to build a habit. Takes ~66 days to form a habit, so keep them participating throughout that period.
* Ensure regulars are informed, equipped, and can participate without too much red tape.
* Find ways to incorporate regulars more and more into broader structure and strategy.
* Goal with cores is to make them feel part of the leadership. Be vulnerable and ask for their help and guidance.

### Onboarding

* Keys to onboarding:
  * Don't assume too much, but do assume impatience.
  * Start simple and iterate.
  * Every step should connect clearly to the next step.
  * Where possible, make steps measurable.
  * Test all on-ramps objectively.

* Steps to onboarding:
  * Why participate? Sell your community to them.
  * Setup tools. Don't drown them; reassure with simple step-by-step guidance.
  * Build skills. Understand needed skills and provide guidance to pick them up quickly and easily.
  * Tangible engagement. Provide simple ways to connect your members with problems that need solving.
  * Solve problems. Aside from providing resources, reassure them that questions are welcome.
  * Tangible validation. Finally, when they contributed something of value, celebrate it.

### Engagement

* Mentoring - builds a "pay it forward culture"
  * Peer-Based Review - powerfully scale how members provide feedback to members. Additionally everyone benefits from feedback in the open, even observers, as they can understand the history and norms of the project.
  * Coaching - in handpicked scenarios to support notable potential, by asking others if they would mentor. Unfortunately, there will often be far more people who could benefit from coaching than mentors available.
  * Training - provide 1-2 quarterly sessions covering the most critical knowledge gaps in your community. Look for strategic areas where you want to build skills and capabilities and where there is interest.

* Ideally, every member would have a mentor, but this doesn't scale. So instead here are three options:
  * Provide ways to find new things to do and accomplish, so that community members can self direct to the right choices.
  * Facilitate peer support and guidance.
  * Incentivize/reward to keep people moving forward.

### Incentivization

* Produce incentives to keep the journey interesting and rewarding. Engage with them, interact with them, get to know them, build relationships, and support their broader success.
* We are incentivized by clear rewards, great experiences, working with smart people, and accomplishing new or novel outcomes.
* When we map the right rewards to the right incentives, they can generate desirable human behavior, which it turn generates value.
* Always start with intrinsic rewards to build satisfaction and belonging.
* The fundamental goal is a series of incentives keeping people transitioning: on-ramp, casual, regular, then core. Focus initial incentives around these transition points between phases.
* Incentives can help keep members interested, engaged, and rewarded. Importantly though, keep personal touch front and center, as communities thrive on personal relationships.
* Keep a cynical eye on incentives. Have you struck the right balance? If not, refine until they feel supportive of members' success, validation, and relationships.
* If/when you utilize swag, be sure it is meaningful and personal.

* Fundamental ingredients of incentives:
  * Goal - What is the desired behavior?
  * Reward - Go back to personas and review Motivations. What kinds of rewards and recognition motivates them?
  * Condition - What measurable criteria needs to be met before being rewarded?
    * Be Measurable - there are exceptions for rewarding human behavior (insight, kindness, mentorship, support, etc)
    * Be Representative - does this condition represent the desired behavior?
    * Be Varied in Difficulty
    * (Where Possible) Be Automated, but also incentivize things you measure with judgement and observation.

* Stated incentives are published with clear criteria and rewards.
* Submarine incentives use preprogrammed ways to detect great community participation and validate/reward it in a human, personal way. It should use a computer to detect, but then ask a person to personally engage. This allows us to scale up while keeping a personal touch. Important submarine incentive rules:
  * Make them fair.
  * Keep the recipe secret.
  * Mix extrinsic and intrinsic rewards.
  * Make them personal.
  * Build in access and engagement. Submarine incentives can trigger opportunities for access and influence.
  * Start small and build up.

* Reputation systems are a common way to provide a numerical representation of individual member participation.
  * If you use a reputation system, reputation will ideally decay to reflect recent activity, not just activity at some point in time.
  * Can help see spread of least to most active members, spot trends in activity, determine Casual/Regular/Core levels, and provide conditions for incentives/rewards.
  * Think carefully about whether to publicly publish member reputation scores. If your community is competitive, it may make sense, but if it is more collaborative, it might get in the way.

* Rules for Successful Gamification:
  * Focus on onboarding and skill acquisition. Avoid repitition of activity (ie tenth post, hundredth post, etc) as this can be easily abused.
  * As you design, ensuring the gamified things are discoverable is critical.
  * Gamification needs a clear path forward, so focus on dependencies. For example, if you want content creation gamified, you may first need to gamify account registration.
  * Set clear expectations of the step-by-step instructions a member would need to do in order to accomplish the reward.
  * Protect against "gaming the system".
  * Be wary of elevated egos.
* Ensure that messaging/engagement makes it clear that gamification is one way of participating, but that there are other ways in which people add value.

## Events

* Integrating live events
  * Start by guest speaking at meetups or conferences. Focus on sharing lessons learned that are of general interest to the audience.
  * Now co-organize a small event (like a meetup) with another organization.
  * As your community grows, organize your own meetup. Free events can have as much as a 50 percent dropout rate, so really push for signups.
  * Now consider more a more in-depth, dedicated event coscheduled with another conference (when people will be in town already).
  * Finally, organize your own dedicated event.
* When considering other events to join, consider: will target audience personas attend, is there strategic benefit, and what is the cost/benefit.
  * Focus on speaking and content delivery
  * Plan meetings and local opportunities in advance
  * Prioritize the hallway track
  * Bring business and community overview cards
  * Network extensively, especially at social events
  * Evening events are where relationships are often formed
  * Divide and conquer, if you are attending with others from your company, don't just keep huddled together.
  * Follow up after the event with further meetings. Schedule time for calls or in-person meetings while things are still fresh in mind. Go into meetings with a clear idea of what you want and a clear sense of what you can offer.

* Event Content Types
  * Digital Training - hour-ish webinar where people can learn a specific topic or skill. Focus on demos and interactive examples where possible, keep the last fifteen minutes for questions, and make recordings available to the community.
  * Training Workshop - create a set of 45 minute to 1 hour classes around different key topics. Teach fundamentals for 10-20 minutes to provide understanding, then break into small groups to undertake relate tasks. As tasks wrap up, as groups to share their findings with the rest of the group.
  * Round-table discussions - where attendees provide training, discuss ideas, and make plans. Each session should have a clear goal: either teach a specific skill/technique or a clear set of tasks/recommendations for the coming months. Provides a way for community to be involved in strategy, align an projects, grow skills, and develop relationships.
* Event should provide clarity not just on what work is going to happen, but who is doing it and when it should be done. Ideally this information should be captured publicly so that those not attending can follow along.

* Event Planning
  * Decide on Structure
  * Finalize Attendees and Content - only invite Regular and Core members. Invite those who have already proven their value, not just opinionated folks.
  * Invite people to submit topics for discussion:
    * Publicize target themes of the next year
    * Provide a place where people can submit session ideas
    * Select sessions and send guidance
  * Run the event - you want people to leave with a sense of accomplishment and substance
  * Follow Through after the Event
* If possible allow others to dial in
  * provide a live stream so others can listen
  * provide real-time chat that all attendees can join in person or from a far
  * have a projector with the chat channel in each session room

## Metrics

* Rules for measuring effectively:
  * Test Critical Dimensions (not in priority order):
    * Growth - How many people are joining? How is growth changing over time?
    * Retention - Of those that join, how many stick around and participate?
    * Community Engagement - How many people are collaborating together? Are they engaging and working together?
    * Company Engagement - How effectively are staff engaging with community?
    * Delivery - Is community delivering results with personas? Is community delivering value in campaigns and initiatives?
    * Attendance - How well attended are in-person events, online webinars, campaigns, and other initiatives?
    * Efficiency - How efficient are onboarding, collaboration process, conflict resolution, and other elements?
  * Measure Both Action and Validation - ie not just that someone posted, but that the post was good. Tracking action measures engagement/delivery, tracking validation measures quality of engagement. Track both when you can.
  * Focus on Yes or No - When asking if the measure was accomplished, there should be a clear answer (not maybe).
  * Limit What You Measure

* Defining Success - dimensions of success for casual/regular/core
  * Productive Participation:
    * Individual Value - What measurable value has this person delivered for themselves?
    * Community Value - What measurable value has this person brought to the community.
    * Peer Value - What measurable value has this person provided to help their fellow community members.
    * Leadership Value - What measurable value has this person given in providing leadership to the community.
  * Getting Shit Done
  * Organizational "Oomph"
* Build an environment of resources, education, strategy, and execution that:
  * brings in new skills
  * trains people in them
  * supports them as they apply those skills
* Take lessons from incubation and become intentional. Produce standards of practice, train people in them, and ask people to refine and evolve them.

* Maturity Model - Areas of Expertise:
  * Strategy - how you convert your Community Value Proposition into a real, living, breathing community.
  * Management - how you facilitate and run your community.
  * Growth - how you build growth and participation in your community.
  * Engagement - how you engage with the community in a personal, predictable, and positive manner.
  * Leadership - how you lead and run the community.
  * Tooling - all the tools/infrastructure/etc that make your community run smoothly.
  * Metrics - how your measure your community and its health, as well as how you use this information to evolve strategy.
* Maturity Model - Review:
  * Review at end of each cycle.
  * Fully review strategy once a year.
  * Gather feedback from all layers of the organization.
  * Emphasize desire for critical feedback.
  * Integrate changes into Quarterly Delivery Plan.

---

# People Powered: How Communities Can Supercharge Your Business, Brand, and Teams by Jono Bacon and Peter H. Diamandis
- Fundamentally, they are groups of people united by a common interest. (585)
- We need our work to have meaning, and the communities that succeed the most are clearly able to draw a connection between the work of their members and the broader mission of the overall community. (639)
- This is how people become leaders in communities: they repeatedly do great work, develop enormous amounts of respect, and as such are trusted by the community to make decisions. (655)
- Importantly, social capital isn’t just generated by contributing something worthwhile to the community, but in how you produce it. (657)
- focus on these three key ingredients:           1.  How can you make it easy for people to contribute and produce value?           2.  How can you help them contribute over and over again and build up their social capital?           3.  How can you make them feel welcome and intrinsic to the community while building a sense of belonging? (664)
- VALUE AND OPPORTUNITY (670)
- 1. Customer and User Engagement (676)
- 2. Awareness, Marketing, and Customer/User Success (702)
- Your community can be an amplifier that transmits your brand to a broader set of people. (724)
- 3. Education and Support (725)
- All of this taps into a person’s natural urge to teach and experience satisfaction when that teaching helps someone to accomplish great results. (740)
- 4. Product and Technology Development (742)
- If you provide a clear way to map a community member’s skills to delivering meaningful work, it is incredible what results you can generate. (774)
- 5. Business Capabilities (775)
- Finally, don’t think of your community as merely a subservient group. Think of them also as a group of potential mentors. (797)
- This is a cultural challenge, not a technology one. (818)
- As a general rule, building a strategy usually takes around three to six months. Building growth and participation generally takes around a year, possibly longer. (833)
- “MAKE A PLAN AND STICK TO IT” (913)
- The balance we need to strike is to produce a strategy we are committed to delivering while being reactive to the results and regularly optimizing the strategy based on them. (920)
- BUSINESS VISION AND COMMUNITY VISION: SADDLE UP (927)
- Communities play a valuable role not just in delivering value for your organization but in providing a way for a broader set of people to do meaningful work. (949)
- MAKE A COMMUNITY MISSION STATEMENT (955)
- Gather their feedback, assess it, and improve your work. Remember, you want everyone to see their reflection—how they move the needle—in your community mission. (963)
- Your goal is to keep the business vision and community mission front and center in people’s minds. (972)
- PICK A COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT MODEL (977)
- MODEL 1: CONSUMERS (998)
- Specialization is the rocket fuel that makes consumer communities fly. (1005)
- They provide a place where people can congregate, have discussions, share ideas and opinions, showcase work they may have created, and debate different aspects of that shared interest. (1029)
- In Consumer communities, while the means of participation is very simple, the assessment of merit is based on the reputation formed by showing up and taking part. (1041)
- MODEL 2: CHAMPIONS (1049)
- actively delivering work that champions the success of the community and its members. (1051)
- You wade knee-deep into the first part of the Product Success Model, the Learning phase. You start asking questions, reading tutorials, and watching instructional videos in the community for how to get started. (1078)
- You ask more in-depth questions and start Optimizing how you work (the second phase in the Product Success Model). Your expertise is starting to show. Other people start asking questions that you know the answer to, so you respond. (1081)
- You transition into the Mastering phase. You enjoy learning and challenging yourself to make even more incredible videos, but you are also enjoying the validation and respect people in the community give you when you help them. (1084)
- This personal validation gives you even more of an inclination to give back. You start producing new videos about using the software itself. People love them. So you start a blog where you share more ideas. When other community members come to your local town, you meet them for drinks. You are Influencing and a fully formed champion. (1088)
- This is a powerful model for generating multiple value streams: support, content, relationships, and advocacy. (1090)
- MODEL 3: COLLABORATORS (1092)
- Here enthusiastic participants don’t just add independent pieces of work to the stockpile; they actively work together as a team on shared projects. (1096)
- Interestingly, much like stifled yawns around a boardroom table, collaboration can be infectious. When people work together out in the open, solving common, tangible problems, it generates social capital and respect, and onlookers often want to get in on the action. Sometimes the freeloaders are inspired to contribute too! (1115)
- Collaborator communities need to be wired up carefully so people can contribute and collaborate effectively with others. (1121)
- First, provide clear, open access for collaboration. (1123)
- Second, create a simple and clear peer-review process. (1128)
- Third, your collaborative workflow should be open to change. (1130)
- The fourth component, and a critical one, is to provide equal opportunity and a level playing field. (1133)
- Speaking of which, ownership is a key distinction between Inner and Outer communities. In an Inner community the member feels a shared sense of responsibility and ownership in the project (hence wanting to be treated as a team member). In an Outer community members feel ownership of their app/product but not of the platform they are building it on. Think carefully about this relationship with ownership and how it affects your community. (1170)
- The Inner needs to be carefully managed to create a team environment where everyone is treated equally in how they collaborate and work. (1174)
- The Outer is about delivering a world-class platform that gets people up and running quickly and easily and where they are taken care of as content creators. (1178)
- Momentum builds momentum. Humans are attracted to things that clearly add value to other humans. Similarly, great service and experiences inspire people to encourage their friends to experience the same. This generates a referral halo. (1194)
- you need to focus on building both meaningful value and driving consumption of it. (1205)
- Start simple, pick one model, and get cracking. (1216)
- First, if you overcomplicate your first chunk of community strategy, it can become an unwieldy, wiry mess that is difficult to untangle if you get stuck or overwhelmed. (1218)
- Second, the only way to learn this stuff is to roll your sleeves up and get to work. (1220)
- Simplifying the onboarding of new members requires two key areas of focus. (1256)
- First, make building on your platform as simple as possible, (1257)
- Second, have a plan to incentivize developers to promote and raise awareness of their applications and working with your platform. (1262)
- You need to treat your internal community as volunteer in nature. Differentiate between requirements and requests. Some companies see an internal community member do good work and then load them up with extra work they have to do. This produces the opposite of your desired effect and can make people reluctant to join. (1288)
- SIX FOUNDATIONAL KEY PRINCIPLES AND HOW TO APPLY THEM (AND NOT SCREW THEM UP) (1291)
- 1. Start Simple and Build Valuable Assets (1296)
- 2. Have Clear and Objective Leadership (1308)
- This leadership needs to be clear, intentional, approachable, and objective. (1312)
- 3. Clear Culture and Expectations (1324)
- You need to define this and constantly remind people of these values on a day-to-day basis. (1332)
- I often recommend to clients that they create a Community Promise, which contains their core values that may be obvious to us but are important to boldly state. (1334)
- This often includes elements such as:            •  We criticize ideas, not people.            •  We treat people as equals and everyone is welcome in our community, irrespective of their gender, sexuality, political orientation, or otherwise.            •  We judge contributions based on their individual merit.            •  The vast majority of collaboration in our community happens openly, with limited exceptions for security or customer reasons.            •  We believe in “fail forward.” We don’t demonize people for failure but embrace it to learn and improve. (1335)
- Influence is psychologically important to us, not just to validate our own work, but to build a sense of belonging in a group. (1349)
- 4. Focus on Relationships, Trust, and Engagement (1353)
- It is simple, really: invest yourself in other people’s success, be interested in their story, and treat them like equals. (1362)
- 5. Strive for and Be Reactive to Insight (1363)
- 6. Be Surprising (1375)
- Companies must be willing to release some control of the project to the community, or they risk ending up with a pseudo-open project.” (1393)
- As we have covered so far, the authenticity of your community is critical. Key to that authenticity is building a collaborative environment where your community is empowered to do great work. (1395)
- The true test of your community strategy is not making people jump through hoops to approve their work, but instead making them want to jump through hoops to help them, you, and the rest of the community be successful. (1399)
- There is a risk here though: if you are not clear in what value your audience wants and how you can deliver it quickly and reliably for them, you risk a lot of work and a lot of failure. (1419)
- If we can (a) clearly see how we can contribute value, and (b) clearly see how we can receive value, we have the foundation for a great community. (1430)
- This gives us our next step: to crisply understand what tangible and intangible value we should generate in our communities. (1432)
- The role of empathy and selflessness has proven time and time again to both build relationships and repair them (1439)
- Here is rule number one for how to build great communities: put the success and value of your prospective members first. If you get that right, success for your organization will naturally flow. (1450)
- Let’s look at some common areas of value we see in different communities. (1466)
- 1. Meeting Other (Awesome) People. (1468)
- 2. Interesting Content That Enriches Their Experience. (1470)
- This value should be two-fold: consuming all this great content but also producing content and enjoying other people enjoying it for themselves. (1472)
- 3. High-Quality Education and Getting Help. (1474)
- 4. Skills Development. (1477)
- 5. Mentoring and Coaching. (1480)
- 6. Career Experience and Expertise. (1483)
- People are initially attracted to communities for the tangible value, but the intangible value keeps them coming back for more. (1492)
- That last one is critical. Communities need to be fun! (1505)
- Let’s look at some common areas of value many organizations are looking for when they build out their community programs. These should sell both the passionate and dispassionate on why this community will be worth the time and effort. (1516)
- 1. Customer and User Growth. (1518)
- 2. Better Support for Customers and/or Users. (1521)
- 3. Improved Marketing and Brand Recognition. (1523)
- 4. Technology/Product Production and Enhancement. (1525)
- 5. Recruiting and Services. (1530)
- This is a consistent pattern I see: community members want to serve the community, of which your organization is one cog in the machine. (1540)
- It should be clear how the company can drive value for your community members and vice versa. (1556)
- You need to balance executive needs with practical guidance for the folks on the ground delivering this work. (1565)
- The solution here is a clear set of high-level objectives, called our Big Rocks, with crisply defined owners and success criteria. (1567)
- Start by brainstorming five to seven key objectives for your community strategy that should be delivered over the next calendar year. (1571)
- Each Big Rock should be . . . well, big. We are not looking for small improvements here, but meaty, juicy, no-screwing-around, ambitious goals. These Big Rocks should move the needle and elicit a breathy “wow” when you show them to people. Importantly, your Big Rocks should have a clear connection to generating the value in your Community Value Statement. (1577)
- They should be realistic and doable. (1580)
- Create a document and use the following format for each Big Rock: (1583)
- A Single Line Summary of the Objective:    A paragraph or two that provides an overview of the objective and the primary value it will bring to the community and organization. (1585)
- Key Initiatives (over the next year):    A bullet point list of significant pieces of work that should be performed to accomplish this objective. (1588)
- Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) (over the next year):    A measurable set of metrics that you can use to tangibly assess if this objective was accomplished. (1590)
- Owner: The person who owns the delivery of this objective. (1593)
- Your goal here is concise readability. (1604)
- All of your Big Rocks should cover four to six pages max. (1606)
- As you design your Big Rocks, bear in mind these three key realities. (1675)
- 1. Value costs money and time to create. (1676)
- 2. There will be roadblocks. (1681)
- 3. Whatever you think will happen, it will pan out differently. (1685)
- Everything you do needs to have a dotted line to the value you want to produce. (1695)
- Spoiler Alert: if we want to really understand communities and how to build them, we need to understand people and how they work. (1705)
- This work is split into three areas: (1719)
- 1.  Understand the irrationality of human behavior, why we behave the way we do, and how we can harness key behavioral patterns to our advantage. (1720)
- 2.  Decide who our audience is and design a set of audience personas that help us to shape our community around a realistic understanding of their needs and characteristics. (1721)
- 3.  Finally, understand the group dynamics in a community so we can engage with our community members as effectively as possible. (1723)
- The SCARF model was first published by Dr. David Rock, a neuroscientist, in 2008.4 It provides five key behavioral considerations he identified from his research that are handy for us to be aware of right out the gate: (1774)
- 1. Status is important to us. (1776)
- 2. Certainty, and more specifically avoiding uncertainty, is important to our well-being. (1787)
- 3. Autonomy refers to the impact of choices on our lives. Put simply, choice is important to us. (1799)
- 4. Relatedness taps into the natural urge we have to form smaller tribes within a broader group of people. (1811)
- Breaking communities into smaller teams can be a powerful way to tap into this safety instinct and build a sense of team spirit, identity, and belonging. (1814)
- 5. Fairness is important, not just because we want to be treated fairly ourselves but because unfair treatment elicits both a threat response, and—in some cases—a disgust response. (1826)
- Audience personas help us to codify an understanding of what these different types of participation look like. (1855)
- 1. Users are the general consumers in your community. (1861)
- 2. Fans go the extra mile. They want to meet other fans, have discussions, and debate various topics. (1864)
- 3. Support people help other users solve problems. This may be as simple as solving individual problems for individual people, or more involved such as personal mentoring, or even providing training for multiple people. (1867)
- 4. Content Creators produce content and material. (1870)
- 5. Advocates want your product and community to be successful. They perform marketing, outreach, and promotion to raise awareness and get people interested and involved. (1877)
- 6. Event Organizers enjoy producing and delivering events. (1880)
- 7. Inner Developers write code and perform engineering that benefits a shared project in the community (such as an open-source project). (1882)
- 8. Outer Developers build applications and services that run on a platform we run. (1884)
- Grab your Community Mission Statement and your Community Value Statement. Based on the value you want to drive, which of the personas that you chose are most critical for the next year? Choose two, or three max. (1903)
- For each of your targeted personas, flesh them out. Create a document for each and, as usual, keep this simple, focused, and concise. This should be one to three pages max for each persona. (1916)
- Capabilities. What capabilities do you expect this persona to have? (1918)
- Experience. What experience do you expect your personas to have? (1921)
- Motivations. What motivates this persona? (1925)
- Fears. Now flip the coin. What are the fears for each persona? What are the things they would worry about that we can try to prevent? (1927)
- Rewards. Now list rewards that would be interesting. (1931)
- Where They Live. Now, let’s not get creepy here, I don’t mean their physical address, but where do they spend their time? (1934)
- While there are a raft of group dynamics you will pick up as you build your community experience, here are ten consistent golden rules that map to every community I have ever worked with: (2009)
- 1. Your community members work for the community, not for you. (2011)
- 2. If you ask them to help, they often will. (2016)
- General calls for volunteers to provide help often demonstrate limited results, but reaching out to specific individuals to ask them to do specific things often works well. (2018)
- 3. They thrive on personal validation and gratification. (2020)
- 4. They are not free labor for your company. (2023)
- 5. They are not sales leads. (2027)
- 6. They don’t have the same information and context as you do. (2031)
- 7. They may share the same vision, but not the same approach. (2037)
- 8. Their commitment and organizational experience will vary. (2044)
- 9. The quieter ones are often your secret weapons. (2048)
- 10. They are your friends, and friends keep friends honest. (2053)
- Constructive criticism shows members care and is a sign of the success of your community (2056)
- Great experiences produce an appetite for value, set expectations, and get you there easily with gratifying results. (2102)
- Don’t treat your community as a loose collection of websites and content. Think of it as a carefully glued-together chronological journey that has a beginning, middle, and end. (2119)
- Community Participation Framework, (2122)
- This framework is broken into three key sections: (2130)
- 1. Onboarding: (2131)
- we take a person who is brand new, who represents one of our target audience personas, and we help them produce something of value—both to them and the community—as quickly and easily as possible. (2131)
- 2. Engagement: (2133)
- We now help them to settle in, and support their transition between three key states: Casual, Regulars, and finally Core. (2134)
- 3. Incentivization: To help grow and maintain participation, we lay a series of incentives and rewards (shown by the little bumps) that help them to stay engaged, develop their experience, produce new skills, and stay motivated. (2136)
- Importantly, you need to apply the Community Participation Framework to each one of your personas individually. (2138)
- When a new community member wanders up to the start of the on-ramp, they typically progress step-by-step through six stages. Let’s take a look at each. (2162)
- 1. Why Participate? (2163)
- You need to sell your community to them. (2165)
- 2. Setup Tools. (2170)
- Don’t drown them in text; reassure them with simple step-by-step guidance. (2177)
- 3. Build Skills. (2180)
- Understand what skills your members need and provide them with clear guidance so they can pick them up quickly and easily. (2185)
- 4. Tangible Engagement. (2187)
- Provide simple ways to connect your members with problems that need solving. (2189)
- 5. Solve Problems. (2194)
- Aside from just providing the resource, reassure them that questions are welcome. (2197)
- 6. Tangible Validation. (2200)
- Finally, when they have contributed something of value, celebrate it. (2200)
- This is because every on-ramp for every persona should include two specific phases: how new members are sold on the value of participation and rewarding them for their efforts. (2206)
- Step 6 is essential for building a sense of recognition, personal touch, and belonging. (2208)
- As you design your on-ramps, I want you to avoid some common landmines buried in the process. (2244)
- Don’t assume too much. (2246)
- You should assume impatience. (2247)
- Start simple and iterate. (2248)
- Every step should connect clearly to the next step. (2252)
- Where possible, every step should be measurable. (2255)
- Test all your on-ramps objectively. (2257)
- In a perfect world, every community member would have a mentor to guide them. Since that won’t scale, there are three approaches I recommend to get people up and running: (2271)
- 1. Self-direction provides the right set of choices to your community members, where they can always find new things to do and accomplish, all of their own volition. (2273)
- 2. Peer support provides ways in which members can support and guide one another. (2277)
- 3. Incentivization is where you provide specific incentives and rewards that keep people moving forward. (2281)
- As a general rule, for every one hundred community members, seventy will be Casual, thirty will be Regulars, and one will be Core (2293)
- Our ultimate goal is to wire together the right mixture of self-direction, peer review, and incentivization to keep them progressing from Casual to Regular, and then from Regular to Core. Not everyone will want to ultimately get to Core, but you should build an environment that supports this transition if they choose to make it. (2296)
- The major goal with casual contributors is to help them acclimatize and settle in. (2307)
- To get them to be a Regular, help them build a habit. It takes around sixty-six days to form a habit, and your goal is to get them participating throughout that sixty-six-day period.11 (2312)
- When a new member has participated for a significant and sustained period of time, they can be considered a regular. (2317)
- The key goal here is to ensure they are informed, equipped, and can participate without too much red tape. (2320)
- Find ways to incorporate your Regulars more and more into the broader structure and strategy of the community. (2325)
- The major goal with Core contributors is to make them feel part of the leadership of the community. (2338)
- Many community managers make the mistake of treating all their community members in a subservient role. Don’t make this mistake with your Core members. Be vulnerable and ask for their help and guidance; you will benefit from it. (2345)
- Sure, the Big Rocks cover your broader objectives, but how do you manage the nitty-gritty details wrapped up in the day-to-day delivery of this work? Welcome to the Quarterly Delivery Plan. (2359)
- ROCKS and break them into a set of individual ITEMs that deliver the goals of each Big Rock. For each item, specify a set of KPIs that state clear, measurable deliverables to be completed for that item. (2365)
- Each of these items is then assessed as to when it can be delivered, and a QUARTER is selected. (2367)
- Finally, you can use the Quarterly Delivery Plan to track the current STATUS of these items on a weekly basis. (2376)
- As you build out your plan, there are eight important principles you should incorporate: (2420)
- 1. Always ensure items have a clear dotted line to a Big Rock. (2421)
- 2. Ensure your team is accountable. (2424)
- 3. Be realistic about delivery. (2428)
- 4. Ensure it is a “sacred document.” (2433)
- 5. Review progress weekly, resolve problems, and update statuses. (2436)
- 6. Review and update at the end of each quarter. (2439)
- 7. Create a backlog. (2444)
- 8. Use failure and delays to spot opportunities. (2448)
- I suggest you follow my Four Rules for Measuring Effectively. (2513)
- Rule 1: Test Critical Dimensions (2514)
- In a community there are seven primary critical dimensions that I see in most cases (not in any priority order): (2518)
- 1.  Growth. How many people are joining your community? How is the growth changing over different time periods? (2519)
- 2.  Retention. Of those people who join the community, how many are sticking around and participating? (2521)
- 3.  Community ↔ Community Engagement. How are people collaborating together? Are they engaging and working together? (2523)
- 4.  Company ↔ Community Engagement. How effectively are your staff engaging with the community? (2524)
- 5.  Delivery. Is the community delivering results within that audience persona? For example, are Support personas answering questions, are Developers producing code, and are Content Creators producing useful content? Is the community delivering value in your campaigns and initiatives? (2526)
- 6.  Attendance. How well attended are your in-person events, online webinars, campaigns, and other initiatives? (2528)
- 7.  Efficiency. How efficient are your various processes such as your onboarding, collaboration processes, conflict resolution, and other elements? (2530)
- Rule 2: Measure Both Action and Validation (2539)
- The problem here was that the forum measured only the action of posting something. What it didn’t measure was the validation of that thing: whether the action is any good or not. (2546)
- As a general rule, tracking the action is a great way to measure engagement and delivery. Tracking the validation is a great way to measure the quality of that engagement. Focus on tracking both where you can. (2555)
- Rule 3: A Matter of “Yes” or “No” (2558)
- When you ask the question “Did we accomplish this,” it should be answerable with a clear “yes” or “no,” and not a “maybe.” (2562)
- Rule 4: Limit What You Measure (2570)
- If you have five Big Rocks and you are tracking two to three critical dimensions in each, those are the things you need to measure. (2583)
- DON’T JUST GET ON THE SAME PAGE—STAY ON IT (2587)
- Defining Success 1: Productive Participation (2602)
- Here’s the key point to remember: maturity models show you the framework of what to measure, but you need to fill in the details yourself. (2616)
- Here’s how it works. Along the bottom axis you can see the phases from our Community Participation Framework back in chapter 5. It includes the Casual, Regular, and Core segments, but it also includes Onboarding, as this is a critical component of assessing success. For each segment we define what success should look like. This is measured using a few different dimensions. (2620)
- Individual Value. What is the measurable value that this persona should deliver for themselves? (2624)
- Community Value. What is the measurable value that this person has brought to the community? (2626)
- Peer Value. What is the measurable value that the person has provided to help their fellow community members? (2628)
- Leadership Value. What is the measurable value the person has given in providing leadership in the community? (2631)
- For Onboarding we want to stick to our original stated goal in chapter 5 of helping them to deliver a single piece of value for themselves and the community. (2639)
- Defining Success 2: Getting S#!t Done (2668)
- Defining Success 3: Organizational “Oomph” (2718)
- First you incubate new skills. You build an environment with the right mix of resources, education, strategy, and execution that (a) brings in new skills, (b) trains people in them, and (c) supports them as they apply those skills. (2723)
- We then focus on intention. You take the lessons learned in the incubation phase and become intentional about them. You produce organizational Standards of Practice, train people in them, and ask people to refine and evolve them. This generates your internal playbook for how to do this work well based on your growing experience. (2727)
- The companies that succeed are the ones who integrate community strategy across the business, aligned with product, engineering, marketing, and sales. (2735)
- These seven Areas of Expertise are the most critical and common areas I see in organizations I work with across a wide range of communities. (2750)
- 1. Strategy refers to the organized way in which you convert your Community Value Proposition into a real, living, breathing community. (2752)
- 2. Management refers to how you facilitate and run your community. (2754)
- 3. Growth refers to how you build growth and participation in your community. (2757)
- 4. Engagement refers to how you engage with the community in a personal, predictable, and positive manner (2760)
- 5. Leadership refers to how you lead and run the community. (2763)
- 6. Tooling refers to all the tools, infrastructure, and other nuts and bolts that make your community machine purr. (2766)
- 7. Metrics refers to building maturity in how your organization measures your community, its health, as well as how to evolve your strategy based on what you see, measure, and understand. (2769)
- I typically follow five rules for applying this maturity model with most companies: (2777)
- 1. Review at the end of each cycle. (2778)
- 2. Do a full strategy review once a year (2780)
- 3. Gather feedback from all layers of the organization. (2784)
- 4. Emphasize a desire for critical feedback. (2787)
- 5. Integrate changes in your Quarterly Delivery Plan. (2791)
- Cultures are hard to understand and build. They are formed from a set of norms that are repeated and become adopted by the broader group. (2825)
- 1. Understand the Ten Culture Cores. (2831)
- 2. Build a Growth Strategy (2834)
- 3. Build an Engagement Strategy. (2837)
- 4. Observe, Hypothesize, Experiment. (2839)
- 1. Be open. Always default to open where you can. (2852)
- Talk and write openly and freely, provide extra context, and overcommunicate. (2854)
- Openness breeds authenticity, which has been a constant throughout this book. (2859)
- 2. Be pragmatic. Too many communities are all talk and no action. (2875)
- 3. Be personal. (2879)
- Focus on quality not quantity. (2886)
- 4. Be positive. (2891)
- Highly positive environments generate positive engagement, (2891)
- 5. Be collaborative. (2895)
- Try to avoid decisions being made in a silo. Involve people, gather their feedback, get a gut check, and validate your ideas. (2897)
- 6. Be a leader. (2902)
- Don’t be afraid of unpopular decisions. (2905)
- 7. Be a role model. (2907)
- 8. Be empathetic. (2910)
- Be intentional: don’t just be empathetic in the privacy of your own mind. Say it, demonstrate it visibly. (2914)
- 9. Be down-to-earth. (2922)
- 10. Be imperfect. (2928)
- Treat the community as an experience you are shaping together with them, complete with all the successes and failures therein. (2931)
- For the majority of launches, I recommend five key components. (2945)
- 1. Infrastructure and Content Finalized. (2947)
- 2. Early Adopter Program. (2950)
- Get their feedback, ask them questions, ask them to help with promotion. (2959)
- 3. Teasers Launched. (2966)
- 4. Announce a Launch Event. (2970)
- 5. Launch Day. (2973)
- Building growth requires a multimedia approach. Growth brings people in, but engagement makes them stick around. (2997)
- Content and Editorial: Content is a fantastic way of building growth. New communities typically face an awareness gap (people learning what your product/community is), and a skills gap (how to get involved). Content can close these gaps and bring people to your community. (2999)
- You need a constant drip-feed of material to bring people into your community. (3004)
- Plan this work in an Editorial Calendar (3004)
- Original blog content: One per week (3011)
- Original social media content: Three per week (3013)
- Blog content promoting other material/content: One per month (3014)
- Social media promoting other material/content: Two per week (3016)
- Themed campaign: One per quarter (3018)
- Online event: One per quarter (3020)
- As you brainstorm this material, cover the key topics that your target audience personas will find valuable. (3023)
- In-Person Events: Meetups, conferences, hackathons, and other in-person events are a fabulous way to raise awareness and build growth. (3045)
- Advertising: While rarely used for communities, advertising can be a useful tool for raising awareness. (3050)
- Incentives and Rewards: (3056)
- First, produce a series of incentives that keep the journey interesting and rewarding. (3068)
- Second, engage with them, interact with them, get to know them, build relationships, and support their broader success. (3069)
- Casual: Our number one goal with Casual members is to make them feel at home and help them be successful. There are four key ways to do this: (3078)
- 1. Be responsive and help solve their problems (3080)
- 2. Validate and celebrate their efforts. (3088)
- 3. Break the ice and build a relationship. (3092)
- Always emphasize that you are there to help (3094)
- 4. Help them find opportunities to make an impact. (3095)
- Regular: The key with Regulars is to remove any and all frustration and bureaucracy from their participation. (3101)
- There are five things to focus on when engaging with Regulars: (3104)
- 1. Optimize, Optimize, Optimize. Always observe how your Regulars are engaging and find ways to make it easier, more efficient, and more fun. (3105)
- 2. Regularly gather their feedback. (3108)
- 3. Promote their successes. (3111)
- 4. Provide opportunities. (3114)
- 5. Put them in positions of trust and authority. (3117)
- If they are dependable, start to depend on them. (3120)
- Core: These folks don’t just care about their own community experience; they care about the broader health and success of the community itself. (3121)
- There are five key things you should do with all your Core members: (3124)
- 1. Have a regular engagement with them. (3124)
- 2. Reward them comprehensively. (3126)
- 3. Include them at a strategic level (3129)
- 4. Understand and serve their broader goals. (3133)
- 5. Invite blunt feedback. (3136)
- Mentoring builds a culture that “pays it forward.” (3155)
- There are three approaches to mentoring, all which can add incredible value. (3156)
- 1. Peer-Based Review. (3157)
- Peer review is one of the most powerful ways of scaling out how your members provide actionable feedback to other members. (3158)
- because this happens out in the open, everyone can benefit from seeing the feedback, even if they are simply an observer, thus building a history of how the project was built. (3169)
- it provides a way to allow hundreds of contributions to be reviewed without bogging down a small set of approvers. (3170)
- 2. Coaching: (3175)
- I usually recommend this in handpicked scenarios. When I have done this before, at any one time I would identify three to five people who I thought showed notable potential in the community. (3177)
- I then identify members who I know can provide high-quality coaching (preferably with prior experience teaching/training) and ask them if they would be open to mentoring those members. (3179)
- The tricky thing with coaching is that there are always significantly more people who need coaching than mentors available. (3186)
- 3. Training: (3189)
- As a general rule, you should run one or two training sessions a quarter that cover the most critical knowledge gaps in your community. (3192)
- Look at the areas where you strategically want to build skills and capabilities and where there is interest. (3195)
- Step 1. Observe the data and look for patterns. (3203)
- Step 2. Develop a hypothesis. (3207)
- Step 3. Devise an experiment. (3211)
- Never run an experiment that you can’t map to actionable changes in your community. (3215)
- Step 4. Review the results. (3220)
- Step 5. Determine next steps. (3225)
- Again, never test a hypothesis and then fail to make any strategic adjustments based on it. (3225)
- STAY LASER FOCUSED ON CREATIVITY AND MOMENTUM (3230)
- The best ideas come from different brains, so get more brains involved in the process. (3238)
- In a nutshell: when we map the right rewards to the right incentives, they can generate desirable human behavior, which in turn generates value. (3254)
- We are incentivized by clear rewards, great experiences, working with smart people, and accomplishing new or novel outcomes. (3259)
- you shouldn’t just incentivize the things you can measure with computers but also the things you can measure only with judgement and observation from your community team, (3269)
- Every incentive has three fundamental ingredients (3279)
- 1. The Goal: First, what is the desired behavior you want to incentivize? (3279)
- 2. The Reward. Go back to your audience personas and look at the Motivations section. What kind of rewards and recognition motivates them? (3284)
- When designing your rewards, always start with intrinsic rewards first. (3294)
- Intrinsic rewards build satisfaction and belonging. (3296)
- Most critically, make your swag meaningful and personal. (3300)
- 3. The Condition: The final piece of the puzzle is the condition. That is, what measurable criteria needs to be met to accomplish the reward? (3310)
- There are four considerations in deciding on your condition: (3313)
- 1. Be Measurable. (3314)
- The exception here is with rewarding general human behavior (e.g., mentorship, insight, kindness, and support). (3317)
- 2. Be Representative. Does this condition represent the behavior you want to see? (3319)
- 3. Be Varied in Difficulty. (3324)
- 4. (Where Possible) Be Automated. (3327)
- Our fundamental goal is to plot a series of incentives that keep people transitioning forward, first to the on-ramp, then to Casual, on to Regular, and then to Core. Strategically, you should build your first set of incentives at the transition points between these phases, (3335)
- Stated incentives are clearly communicated opportunities for community members to participate in. They are published and have clear criteria and rewards. (3357)
- Submarine incentives are the sneaky cousin to stated incentives. They are preprogrammed ways in which we can detect great community participation and then validate and reward it in a human, personal way. (3360)
- Submarine incentives are one tool for dealing with this problem. They are preprogrammed incentives and rewards that, when triggered, provide an opportunity for us to engage personally with a member. This allows us to scale up and still be personal. (3404)
- Use a computer to detect, but ask a person to engage. (3423)
- When considering submarine incentives, there are a few important rules to follow: (3434)
- 1. Make them fair. (3435)
- 2. Keep the recipe secret. (3437)
- 3. Mix extrinsic and intrinsic rewards. (3440)
- 4. Make them personal. (3443)
- 5. Build in access and engagement. (3447)
- Use submarine incentives to trigger opportunities for access and influence. (3448)
- 6. Start small and build up. (3450)
- Reputation is commonly a numerical representation of an individual member’s participation in your community. (3479)
- Importantly, reputation should decay over time. (3487)
- If you do calculate a reputation score, it can be a fantastically useful metric for (a) seeing the spread of the least to most active members, (b) spotting trends in activity, (c) determining how your users are divided across our Casual, Regular, and Core phases, and (d) providing a Condition (that we discussed earlier) for your incentives and rewards. (3494)
- Think carefully if you should publish your member reputation scores. If you have a community that is designed to be competitive in nature (such as a game), it might make a lot of sense to publish it. If your community is more collaborative in nature (such as an Inner Collaborator community), you might not want to. (3496)
- Out of this work, and studying gamification in other communities (e.g., multiplayer games, exercise groups, and others), I recommend you follow a key set of rules. (3562)
- 1. First, focus on onboarding and skills acquisition. (3564)
- Don’t gamify based on repetition of activity (e.g., tenth post, one hundredth post, one thousandth post) as this can be easily abused. (3565)
- 2. As you design your gamification platform, discovery is critical. (3566)
- 3. Gamification needs a clear path forward. When you design a gamification system, it is easy to find dependencies. For example, if you want to gamify someone submitting an idea in a community for the first time, you may want to first gamify them registering an account. (3570)
- 4. As you do this work, set clear expectations. Provide simple, step-by-step instructions for what the member needs to do to accomplish the reward. (3574)
- 5. Be sure to protect against “gaming the system.” (3575)
- 6. Throughout this, be careful of elevated egos. (3579)
- You should always ensure that your messaging and engagement makes it clear that gamification is one way of participating, but there are many other ways in which people add value. (3581)
- Incentives are a powerful way to keep your members interested, engaged, and rewarded. Importantly though, always keep the personal touch front and center as you do this work. Communities thrive on personal relationships. (3589)
- Look at your incentives through a cynical eye: have you struck the right balance? If not, refine them until they feel supportive of your members’ success, validation, and relationships. (3593)
- Start by offering yourself as a guest speaker at meetups or conferences. (3615)
- Focus on sharing lessons learned that are of general interest to the audience. (3617)
- Now co-organize a small event (such as a meetup) with another organization. (3619)
- As your community grows, it is time to organize your own meetup. (3624)
- Free events can experience up to a 50 percent dropout rate, so go gangbusters in getting bums on seats. (3625)
- Now move toward organizing a more in-depth, dedicated event that is coscheduled next to another conference (so people are in town already). (3626)
- Finally, the ultimate step is to organize your own dedicated event. (3631)
- When you evaluate which events to attend, judge them on (a) whether your target audience personas are there, (b) if they are of strategic benefit, and (c) the cost/benefit analysis of what you aim to accomplish. There should be a clear value outcome for joining. It should not be, “Well, we kind of need to be there.” (3645)
- Focus on speaking and content delivery. (3650)
- Plan meetings and local opportunities in advance. (3653)
- Prioritize the hallway track. (3656)
- Bring business and community overview cards. (3659)
- Network extensively, especially at the social events. (3664)
- The evening events are where relationships are often formed. (3666)
- Divide and conquer. One problem I see all the time at conferences is when people who work for the same company spend large chunks of the day or evening huddled together. (3670)
- After the event, follow up with further meetings. (3674)
- When you get back, follow up while the conversation is fresh in your minds. Schedule more time with a call or in-person meeting, and ensure you go to the meeting with (a) a clear goal of what you want, and (b) a clear sense of what you can offer. (3676)
- Method 1: Digital Training (3685)
- Schedule it as a one-hour webinar that people can register for to learn a specific topic or skill. (3686)
- There are many creative ways to deliver education in an interesting way. (3692)
- Provide demos and interactive examples where it makes sense. Then in the last fifteen minutes answer any remaining questions. When the session is complete, make the recording available in your community (and promote it extensively to your community as an important cornerstone piece of content). (3695)
- Method 2: Training Workshops (3698)
- Break the training session into a series of different individual classes that cover a key topic. Each class should last no longer than forty-five minutes to one hour. (3702)
- Teach the fundamentals for ten to twenty minutes, and ensure the audience has a good understanding. Then break the audience into a series of small groups and give them a task that relates to the content and a set amount of time to complete it. (3704)
- After the time wraps up, ask each group to share their findings with the rest of the training group. (3707)
- My recommended format is simple. Have a series of short morning keynotes (designed to be inspirational), but the bulk of the event is in-person round-table discussion sessions where attendees provide training, discuss ideas, and make plans. (3714)
- Each session has a clear goal: to either teach a specific skill or technique or to get a clear set of tasks or recommendations to be delivered in coming months. (3717)
- It provides a way for the community to (a) be strategically involved in the community, (b) get aligned on projects, and (c) grow and develop skills and relationships. (3721)
- Step 1: Decide on a Structure (3722)
- Step 2. Finalize Attendees and Content (3733)
- You should only be inviting Regulars and Core members. (3736)
- Invite people who have already proven their value, not just people with opinions. (3737)
- Now, invite people to submit topics for discussion, taking this approach: (3744)
- 1. Publicize the target themes of the next year (3745)
- 2. Provide a place where people can submit session ideas. (3748)
- 3. Select sessions and send guidance. (3754)
- The goal of the event is to have clarity on not just what work is going to happen, but who is doing it and when it should be done by. (3760)
- Ideally, these actions should be captured on a public website (such as a wiki) so those not at the event can follow along. (3763)
- Step 3. Run the Event (3766)
- You want people to leave the sprint with a sense of accomplishment and substance. (3768)
- If possible, try to allow people who cannot join the event to dial in. (3769)
- 1. Provide a live stream so that people can listen in from outside the event. (3772)
- 2. Provide a real-time chat channel that all attendees inside and outside the conference can join. (3773)
- 3. Have a projector that displays the chat channel for that session room. (3775)
- Step 4. Follow Through after the Event (3782)
- you need to integrate it into your organization, hire the right people to deliver it, and most importantly, build organizational capabilities. (3805)
- Whether you are looking for a Community Director, Community Manager, or Community Evangelist, here are three dimensions to judge them on: (3840)
- Domain Expertise. (3842)
- People Person. (3845)
- Willingness to Grow. (3849)
- As such, there are five key ways of bringing this clarity and reducing the risk of your strategy falling apart. (3915)
- 1. Community Is Everyone’s Priority (3917)
- Good leadership trickles down, and if your leadership demonstrates good community habits, your staff will too. (3919)
- 2. Get Departmental Alignment (3930)
- Ensure that all departments are clearly aligned in what role they play in delivering community strategy. (3936)
- Either way, there needs to be (a) commitment to delivery, and (b) an understanding that not delivering is not an option. (3938)
- 3. Operate on a Cadence Cycle (3943)
- 4. Train and Mentor (3970)
- 5. Execute, Review, Repeat (3999)
- Don’t just judge if your team delivers. Judge how they deliver and any problems they face. (4000)
- PERFECTION IS NOT REQUIRED, BUT FOCUS IS (4008)
- WAYS TO KEEP LEARNING (4035)
- 1. Read this book again. Seriously. (4037)
- 2. Surround yourself with new ideas. (4043)
- 3. Interview and ask questions. (4048)
- 4. Test and challenge your assumptions. (4053)
- 5. Document, share, and discuss. (4058)
- Be vulnerable. (4063)
- The human condition is not a fearful, angry, divided one. It is a social and supportive one. We thrive together. (4123)
